Installer v10.5 (#5371)
SkylineCommunications/dataminer-docs: dataminer/Getting_started/Installing_a_DMA/Unattended_DM_installation.md

# Unattended DataMiner installation

## v10.5 installer

> With the v10.5 installer, it is possible to pre-configure the installation, so that you only need to launch the installer and everything else is taken care of automatically. This can only be used to install a standalone DataMiner Agent; any additional configuration, for example to add the DMA to a cluster, will need to be done manually afterwards.

Reviewer: "...So that you only need to launch the ****"Configurator tool"**** and everything else is taken care of automatically.
Note, I replaced the work Installer with Configurator

Author: So do users actually need to run the installer first, and then they can run the configurator silently afterwards? If that is the case, I'll need to do a lot more changes than just replacing "installer" with "Configurator tool", starting with this paragraph here:
```suggestion
With the v10.5 installer, it is possible to pre-configure DataMiner, so that after you have completed the initial installation, you only need to execute a command to have the entire configuration taken care of automatically.
```

Reviewer: Yes, that is indeed correct. The Installer needs to be ran first. Then, the configurator can be ran silently afterwards.

.\FirstStartupChoice.exe --silent-config <path to config file>
```

> [!TIP]
> For details about the different fields that can be configured during the installation, refer to [Running the installer](xref:Installing_DM_using_the_DM_installer#running-the-installer).

### Example: STaaS with subscription licensing

```json
{
  "DatabaseConfig": {
    "DatabaseMode": "STaaS",
    "CassandraTlsEnabled": false
  },
  "LicenseConfig": {
    "LicenseMode": "Subscription",
    "DataMinerId": ""
  },
  "RegistrationConfig": {
    "OrganizationApiKey": "<Organization API Key>",
    "SystemName": "<System Name>",
    "SystemUrl": "<System URL>",
    "AdminEmail": "<AdminEmail>",
    "StaasRegion": "<weu|uks|cus|sea>"
  }
}
```

### Example: STaaS with perpetual licensing

```json
{
  "DatabaseConfig": {
    "DatabaseMode": "STaaS",
    "CassandraTlsEnabled": false
  },
  "LicenseConfig": {
    "LicenseMode": "Perpetual",
    "DataMinerId": ""
  },
  "RegistrationConfig": {
    "OrganizationApiKey": "<Organization API Key>",
    "SystemName": "<System Name>",
    "SystemUrl": "<System URL>",
    "AdminEmail": "<AdminEmail>",
    "StaasRegion": "<weu|uks|cus|sea>"
  }
}
```

> ### Example: Self-hosted storage with subscription licensing

Reviewer: Instead of Self Hosted, let's change it to "Self Managed"

We also found that the part of the config we provided was not complete, so added the correct one here:

{
  "DatabaseConfig": {
    "DatabaseMode": "SelfHostedExternal",
    "CassandraDbName": "testdb",
    "CassandraHost": "192.168.4.196",
    "CassandraUsername": "skyline",
    "CassandraPassword": "12345678",
    "CassandraTlsEnabled": false,
    "OpenSearchDbName": "testdb",
    "OpenSearchHost": "192.168.4.196",
    "OpenSearchUsername": "admin",
    "OpenSearchPassword": "12345678"
  },
  "LicenseConfig": {
    "LicenseMode": "Subscription",
    "DataMinerId": ""
  },
  "RegistrationConfig": {
    "OrganizationApiKey": "<Organization API Key>",
    "SystemName": "<System Name>",
    "SystemUrl": "<System URL>",
    "AdminEmail": "<AdminEmail>",
    "StaasRegion": ""
  }
}

```json
{
  "DatabaseConfig": {
    "DatabaseMode": "SelfHostedLocal",
    "CassandraTlsEnabled": false
  },
  "LicenseConfig": {
    "LicenseMode": "Subscription",
    "DataMinerId": ""
  },
  "RegistrationConfig": {
    "OrganizationApiKey": "<Organization API Key>",
    "SystemName": "<System Name>",
    "SystemUrl": "<System URL>",
    "AdminEmail": "<AdminEmail>",
    "StaasRegion": ""
  }
}
```

> ### Example: Self-hosted storage with perpetual licensing

Reviewer: Note: updated the config:

{
  "DatabaseConfig": {
    "DatabaseMode": "SelfHostedExternal",
    "CassandraDbName": "testdb",
    "CassandraHost": "192.168.4.196",
    "CassandraUsername": "skyline",
    "CassandraPassword": "12345678",
    "CassandraTlsEnabled": false,
    "OpenSearchDbName": "testdb",
    "OpenSearchHost": "192.168.4.196",
    "OpenSearchUsername": "admin",
    "OpenSearchPassword": "12345678"
  },
  "LicenseConfig": {
    "LicenseMode": "Perpetual",
    "DataMinerId": "12345"
  },
  "RegistrationConfig": {
    "StaasRegion": ""
  }
}
